# Analyzing-calcium-imaging-in-MATLAB
Isolate calcium activity from individual, previously identified neurons and identify calcium transients within the data

Most people are comfortable with the idea of recording electrical activity from the brain, but in recent years scientists have developed a family of proteins that enable optical recording of individual neurons. These proteins are known as calcium indicators. As expected, a calcium indicator is sensitive to the amount of calcium that is present in a cell expressing the protein. When the concentration of calcium inside of the cell increase the fluorescence activity of the cell also increases, and when the concentration of calcium decreases so too does the fluorescence. This enables researchers like me to use a microscope that will image the fluorescence activity of neurons near the surface of the brain. Once these videos are obtained they need to be processed using a series of registration algorithms, bandpass filtering, and finally constrained non-negative matrix factorization to identify individual neurons in the video. Once these steps are completed we can track the fluorescence of individual neurons using the masks of the identified neurons and the video of the brain. 

This algorithm is a small piece of the workflow that's used to generate data from videos and then analyze it to generate novel insights into how the brain functions. This code assumes that the input video has already been registered and filtered, and that a matrix of input neurons (masks) has already been generated. Using this input the code from this repository will isolate average fluorescence and background traces and use them to identify calcium transients. 
